CASMHMS-5572: Provide a procedure to recover from mismatched BMC Credentials (#1740)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: operations/security_and_authentication/Recovering_from_Mismatched_BMC_Credentials.md

# Recovering from Mismatched BMC Credentials

This procedure is aimed recovering from the situation when new or replacement hardware has `root` credentials that do not match the system's current default `root` user credentials.

This type of problem can occur in the following scenarios:

> - The Site has customized the default `root` credentials using either the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The site has customized the default `root` credentials using either the
```

  [Updating the Liquid-Cooled EX Cabinet CEC with Default Credentials after a CEC Password Change](Updating_the_Liquid-Cooled_EX_Cabinet_Default_Credentials_after_a_CEC_Password_Change.md) or
  [Update Default Air-Cooled BMC and Leaf-BMC Switch SNMP Credentials](Update_Default_Air-Cooled_BMC_and_Leaf_BMC_Switch_SNMP_Credentials.md) procedures.

> - Hardware has the factory default `root` password or a different known `root` password configured. Such as a pieces of hardware that moved from a different system with customized default `root` password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Hardware has the factory default `root` password or a different known `root` password configured. For example, hardware that has moved from a different system with a customized default `root` password.
```

## Procedure

1. Specify the BMC hostname with the mismatched credentials:

    ```bash
    ncn-m001# BMC=x1000c0r1b0
    ```

1. Specify the current `root` user password for the BMC:

>     > Depending on the origin of the piece of hardware, this could be the factory default password or a different systems default password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > Depending on the origin of the piece of hardware, this could be the factory default password or a different system's default password.
```

    ```text
    HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
    ...output truncated...
    ```

1. Update the credentials for the Redfish endpoint stored in Vault using Hardware State Manager (HSM):

    ```bash
    ncn-m001# cray hsm inventory redfishEndpoints update $BMC --user root --password $CURRENT_ROOT_PASSWORD 
    ```

1. Wait a few minutes for HSM to attempt to inventory the BMC:

    ```bash
    ncn-m001# sleep 120
    ```

1. Verify the BMC's discovery status is `DiscoverOK`:

    ```bash
    ncn-m001# cray hsm inventory redfishEndpoints describe $BMC
    ```

    If `DiscoveryStarted`, then wait and recheck the discovery status again. If `HTTPsGetFailed`, then examine the HSM logs to troubleshoot the issue.

1. Determine the system's default BMC `root` user password:

    ```bash
    ncn-m001# VAULT_PASSWD=$(kubectl -n vault get secrets cray-vault-unseal-keys -o json | jq -r '.data["vault-root"]' |  base64 -d)
    ncn-m001# alias vault='kubectl -n vault exec -i cray-vault-0 -c vault -- env VAULT_TOKEN=$VAULT_PASSWD VAULT_ADDR=http://127.0.0.1:8200 VAULT_FORMAT=json vault'
    ```

>     1. Retrieve the default `root` password for liquid-cooled hardware:

Reviewer: This seems like it should be phrased to select a command based on the type of hardware in use, rather than having two separate sub-steps. The following format would be better:

1. Retrieve the default `root` password.
    
    * For liquid-cooled hardware:

        ```bash
        ncn-m001# SYSTEM_ROOT_PASSWORD=$(vault kv get secret/meds-cred/global/ipmi | jq .data.Password -r)
        ```

    * For air-cooled hardware:

        ```bash
        ncn-m001# SYSTEM_ROOT_PASSWORD=$(vault kv get secret/reds-creds/defaults | jq .data.Cray.password -r)
        ```

        ```bash
        ncn-m001# SYSTEM_ROOT_PASSWORD=$(vault kv get secret/meds-cred/global/ipmi | jq .data.Password -r)
        ```

    1. Retrieve the default `root` password for air-cooled hardware:

        ```bash
        ncn-m001# SYSTEM_ROOT_PASSWORD=$(vault kv get secret/reds-creds/defaults | jq .data.Cray.password -r)
        ```

>     Verify the systems's default `root` user password:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Verify the systems's default `root` user password:
```

>     ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       ```bash
```

>     ncn-m001# echo $SYSTEM_ROOT_PASSWORD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       ncn-m001# echo $SYSTEM_ROOT_PASSWORD
```

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       ```
```

1. Create payload for the System Configuration Service (SCSD):

    ```bash
    ncn-m001# jq --arg BMC "$BMC" --arg PASSWORD "$SYSTEM_ROOT_PASSWORD" -n \
        '{Targets:[{Xname: $BMC, Creds: {Username: "root", Password: $PASSWORD}}]}' > scsd_payload.json
    ```

1. Inspect the payload:

    ```bash
    ncn-m001# jq . scsd_payload.json
    ```

    Example payload contents:

    ```json
    {
      "Targets": [
        {
        "Xname": "x1000c0r1b0",
        "Creds": {
            "Username": "root",
            "Password": "foobar"
          }
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

1. Apply the the systems's default BMC `root` user credentials to the BMC:

    ```bash
    ncn-m001# cray scsd bmc discreetcreds create scsd_payload.json
    ```

>     Example of a successful credentail change:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Example of a successful credential change:
```
